applications: nrf_desktop: usb state module doc (#2112)
NordicPlayground/fw-nrfconnect-nrf: applications/nrf_desktop/doc/usb_state.rst

The ``usb_state`` module is responsible for tracking the USB connection.

> It is also responsible for the data transmission that application does on this

Reviewer: `for the data transmission over the USB` ?

Author: done

device.

Module Events
*************

+--------------------+----------------------------+-------------+-----------------------------------+------------------+
| Source Module      | Input Event                | This Module | Output Event                      | Sink Module      |
+====================+============================+=============+===================================+==================+
+                    + ``module_state_event``     +             + ``module_state_event``            +                  +
+--------------------+----------------------------+             +-----------------------------------+------------------+
+ ``hid_state``      + ``hid_report_event``       +             + ``hid_report_sent``               + ``hid_state``    +
+--------------------+----------------------------+             +-----------------------------------+                  +
+                    + ``config_event``           +             + ``hid_report_subscription_event`` +                  +

> +--------------------+----------------------------+             +-----------------------------------+------------------+

Reviewer: I will update the array using script later (together with all other modules).

+                    + ``config_forwarder_event`` +             +                                   +                  +
+--------------------+----------------------------+-------------+-----------------------------------+------------------+

Configuration
*************

The ``usb_state`` is enabled by selecting ``CONFIG_DESKTOP_USB_ENABLE``.
It depends on :option:`CONFIG_USB_DEVICE_HID`.

When enabling the USB support for the device, set the following generic options:

 * :option:`CONFIG_USB_DEVICE_MANUFACTURER` - the device manufacturer's name
 * :option:`CONFIG_USB_DEVICE_PRODUCT` - the device's product name
 * :option:`CONFIG_USB_DEVICE_VID` - the device's vendor ID number
 * :option:`CONFIG_USB_DEVICE_PID` - the device`s product ID number

For low latency devices, make sure that the device requests a polling rate of 1 ms by setting :option:`CONFIG_USB_HID_POLL_INTERVAL_MS` to 1.

If the device is meant to support the boot protocol, select :option:`CONFIG_USB_HID_BOOT_PROTOCOL` and make sure :option:`CONFIG_USB_HID_PROTOCOL_CODE` chooses between a mouse or a keyboard code.

Implementation details
**********************

> The ``usb_state`` module registers the HID-class USB device and initializes the USB stack.

Reviewer: Initializes USB HID and enables the USB.
USB device stack is actually initialized and configured with `SYS_INIT` macro by Zephyr.

Author: Not anymore, this was changed few months back.

Reviewer: To be exact: we register the HID USB device, initialize the USB HID device and enable the USB.

The USB stack is still configured in the `SYS_INIT` by the `usb_device_init` - the function configures the USB device stack based on USB descriptor.

The necessary callbacks are connected to ensure that the state of the USB connection is tracked.
From the application's viewpoint, the USB can be in the following states, which are broadcast by the ``usb_state`` module with a ``usb_state_event``:

 * USB_STATE_DISCONNECTED - USB cable is not connected.
 * USB_STATE_POWERED - The device is powered from the USB but is not configured for the communication.
 * USB_STATE_ACTIVE - The device is ready to exchange data with the host.

>  * USB_STATE_SUSPENDED - The host has requested the device to stop operating.

Reviewer: `enter suspended state`? I am not sure if `stop operating` is proper description.

Author: Done

When the device is connected to the host and configured for the communication, the module will broadcast ``USB_STATE_ACTIVE`` state with ``usb_state_event``.

> The module will also subscribe to all HID reports available in the application.

Reviewer: Should we say something about the boot protocol here?
In boot mode we subscribe only for the boot report.

Author: I would no go so much into details here.

Author: I will add "available for selected protocol" - this should be fine.

Author: Done

+                    + ``module_state_event``     +             + ``module_state_event``            +                  +
+--------------------+----------------------------+             +-----------------------------------+------------------+
+ ``hid_state``      + ``hid_report_event``       +             + ``hid_report_sent``               + ``hid_state``    +
+--------------------+----------------------------+             +-----------------------------------+                  +
+                    + ``config_event``           +             + ``hid_report_subscription_event`` +                  +
+--------------------+----------------------------+             +-----------------------------------+------------------+
+                    + ``config_fetch_event``     +             + ``usb_state_event``               +                  +
+--------------------+----------------------------+             +-----------------------------------+------------------+
+                    + ``config_forwarder_event`` +             +                                   +                  +

> +--------------------+----------------------------+-------------+-----------------------------------+------------------+

Reviewer 2: Same comment as I made in: https://github.com/NordicPlayground/fw-nrfconnect-nrf/pull/2103#discussion_r406051650
Personally, I don't understand the meaning of this table without looking into the source code.

I think this could be improved to our reader, maybe a diagram, and additional text to help the reader.

Reviewer 3: I discussed this with the nRF Desktop team yesterday. We're thinking about adding an explanation for each column on the main application page, where all modules are listed, and link to that section from each module page.

Configuration
*************

The ``usb_state`` is enabled by selecting ``CONFIG_DESKTOP_USB_ENABLE``.
It depends on :option:`CONFIG_USB_DEVICE_HID`.

> When enabling the USB support for the device the following generic options should be set correctly:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
When enabling the USB support for the device, set the following generic options:
```
"should be set correctly" -- what does it mean "correctly" here? Please add explanation next to every option, for example ` * :option:`CONFIG_USB_DEVICE_MANUFACTURER` - set the device manufacturer's name`

Author: Do you really think explaining it more is necessary? `the device manufacturer's name` seems pretty obvious the same goes with the other options. Or do you mean to add `set ...` there?

 * :option:`CONFIG_USB_DEVICE_MANUFACTURER` - the device manufacturer's name
 * :option:`CONFIG_USB_DEVICE_PRODUCT` - the device's product name
 * :option:`CONFIG_USB_DEVICE_VID` - the device's vendor ID number
 * :option:`CONFIG_USB_DEVICE_PID` - the device`s product ID number

> For low latency devices the device should request 1 ms polling rate.
> This is done by setting :option:`CONFIG_USB_HID_POLL_INTERVAL_MS` to 1.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
For low latency devices, make sure that the device requests a polling rate of 1 ms by setting :option:`CONFIG_USB_HID_POLL_INTERVAL_MS` to 1.
```

> If the device is to support boot protocol :option:`CONFIG_USB_HID_BOOT_PROTOCOL` must be selected and :option:`CONFIG_USB_HID_PROTOCOL_CODE` must chose between a mouse or a keyboard code.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
If the device is meant to support the boot protocol, select :option:`CONFIG_USB_HID_BOOT_PROTOCOL` and make sure :option:`CONFIG_USB_HID_PROTOCOL_CODE` chooses between a mouse or a keyboard code.
```
What are the criteria for choosing? Maybe it's better to say "make sure <option> is set to code of the correct hardware." or similar?

Implementation details
**********************

> The ``usb_state`` module registers HID class USB device and initializes USB stack.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The ``usb_state`` module registers the HID-class USB device and initializes the USB stack.
```
Or is this "the HID class of the USB device"? Why does the module register this device?

> Necessary callbacks are connected to ensure the state of the USB connection is tracked.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The necessary callbacks are connected to ensure that the state of the USB connection is tracked.
```

> From the application's viewpoint the USB can be in the following states, that are broadcast by the ``usb_state`` module with a ``usb_state_event``:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
From the application's viewpoint, the USB can be in the following states, which are broadcast by the ``usb_state`` module with a ``usb_state_event``:
```

 * USB_STATE_DISCONNECTED - USB cable is not connected.

>  * USB_STATE_POWERED - the device is powered from the USB but is not configured for the communication.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
 * USB_STATE_POWERED - The device is powered from the USB but is not configured for the communication.
```

>  * USB_STATE_ACTIVE - the device is ready to exchange data with a host.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
 * USB_STATE_ACTIVE - The device is ready to exchange data with the host.
```

>  * USB_STATE_SUSPENDED - the host has requested the device to suspend it's operation.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
 * USB_STATE_SUSPENDED - The host has requested the device to stop operating.
```
`its` can refer to both host and device...

When the device is connected to the host and configured for the communication, the module will broadcast ``USB_STATE_ACTIVE`` state with ``usb_state_event``.
The module will also subscribe to all HID reports available in the application.

> When the device is disconnected from the host the module will unsubscribe from these reports.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
When the device is disconnected from the host, the module will unsubscribe from these reports.
```

> When HID report data is transmitted via a ``hid_report_event`` the module will pass it to the associated endpoint.
> Upon data delivery ``hid_report_sent_event`` is submitted by the module.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
When the HID report data is transmitted through ``hid_report_event``, the module will pass it to the associated endpoint.
Upon data delivery, ``hid_report_sent_event`` is submitted by the module.
```
